                                A Medical History

              In  ancient  Japan, teeth were extracted by dentists who used
         only their fingers.

              Hundreds of years ago, Chinese doctors were not paid by their
         sick patients, but only by those who they kept healthy.

              In the times of  Aristotle,  the  Greek  philosopher,  people
         thought  that the liver, not the heart, was the center of emotion.
         Now we know that it is not the heart, either.

              Before giving up on a patient they couldn't cure, doctors  in
         the  Middle  East  used  to  display that patient in the center of
         town, in case a passerby might speak up with a cure.

              After reading the books that interested him, Hippocrates (for
         whom the Hippocratic oath of medicine is named) supposedly  burned
         down  a  library, so that his competitors would not have access to
         the same information.

              The barber's pole dates from the time when barbers were  also
         surgeons. It represents a bandage wrapped around an injured arm.

              The   Rx   sign  that  pharmacists  use  was  originally  the
         astrological sign for Jupiter.

              While Europeans were dying by the thousands, the Chinese were
         using a vaccination  against  smallpox.   They  would  inhale  the
         powdered material from the sores of a smallpox victim.

              One  of  the remedies recommended for the Black Plague was to
         put the intestines of young pigeons or puppies on the forehead.

              A medical curiosity was David Kennison, who was born in  1736
         and   participated  in  the  Boston  Tea  Party.  At  the  age  of
         seventy-six, serving in the War of 1812,  he  lost  a  hand  to  a
         gunshot  wound.   Later,  a  tree  fell  on him, and fractured his
         skull.  Some years later, while training soldiers in the use of  a
         cannon,  something went wrong and an explosion shattered his legs.
         He recovered. Yet later,  a  horse  damaged  his  face.   He  died
         peacefully in 1851 at the age of 115.

              Cataract surgery (removal of lens from eye) was first done in
         1748. But the first anesthesia wasn't until 1842!

              In 1809, a woman had a twenty-two pound ovarian tumor removed
         without anesthesia.
